When you're working with Maven,
all Maven-based apps are pretty much laid out the same way.
To add a little bit more room,
I'm simply going to toggle down this bottom pane by
clicking on the Build button, and I'm going to expand open the project editor.
If you open up the conference-demo portion of your project editor,
this is where all of the contents that were generated
by the Spring initializer live.
The firs important file worth noting is probably the pom.xml.
This is a Maven structure,
and this is where all of the dependencies live inside of your application.
And in fact, you can see that the spring-boot-starter-web was added to this,
which was the Spring Web dependency we checked in the Spring Initializr website.
We'll be covering the POM file and dependencies in more depth a little later on.
The next important section worth digging into is the source code of the app,
and that is contained in the src folder.
It even lays out a main and test folder,
and each of these folders correspond to code that will be either
for testing purposes or for the application.
Diving deeper into the main folder,
you can see that there is Java source code and resources source code.
Property files, XML files,
and any other non-Java-based file will go into the resource area,
and all Java code will go into the Java folder.
Underneath Java,
you'll notice that the package structure is set up based off of the info entered
on the Spring initializer in the group and package section.
So for this app, the package name is com.pluralsight .conferencedemo,
and I can open that up,
and I have a basic Java file called ConferenceDemoApplication here.
And if I open up the ConferenceDemoApplication,
this is the main entry point for your Spring Boot application.
There are a few interesting pieces in this file
that I want you to take notice of.
First is the public void main method.
That method is the main entry point into any Java application,
and it's just a plain Java way to start your application,
and that's how your program will begin its life,
and this is also how your program can be run standalone
rather than deployed to a container.
You'll also notice that there is an annotation in this
class called @SpringBootApplication.
This tells the Spring Boot loader to run the application as a Spring
Boot app and configure it like a Spring Boot app.
At this point, you might be asking, where is the rest of the code,
and where do I start writing code?
So far, the app has just a couple lines of Java code,
and this gives you an idea of how powerful Spring Boot is.
You could run the application with just this small amount of code,
and the app would fire up and run.
Granted,
it won't do anything interesting yet because we haven't
added any interesting code to it.
One of the first things that I like to do is to get the app set up
and sectioned out into its architectural pieces.
I'm going to do that by adding some new packages.
I'm going to select the com.pluralsight .conferencedemo package,
right-click on it, and say New, Package.
And I'm first going to create a controllers package
that will hold our API controllers.
I'm going to create another new package, and this one, I'm going to call models.
This will hold our JPA entities and other persistence info.
The third package I'm going to create is called repositories.
This will hold our JPA repositories.
And finally, I'm going to create one last package called services.
This package could hold service or logic-based code that
may need to go into the application.
These packages aren't necessary for your application,
but I find that creating some best practices with a little
organization like this early on really helps keep the code in the
application from getting messy later on.
And that's it for the basic layout.
If you've done any kind of MVC app before and you've used Maven, this layout shouldn't be too surprising for you.